

Q6.What are the different types of Maven repositories?

ans:
    There are 3 types of maven repository: Local Repository. Central Repository. Remote Repository.
    1. Local Maven Repository
    Local repositories are the folders or directory on your machine where maven is used
    i.e. a local machine that contains the cached jars and dependencies required by your
    project and other artifacts that are built by you on your machine but not released yet. 
    The operations that the maven user can perform is to clean the local repository if any 
    memory or space-related issue is there on their local repository or completely erase the
    data on this repository that will further lead to redownloading of the dependencies required
    by your project. The local repository can be mentioned in your settings.xml file in the following manner –
    
    2. Remote Maven Repository
    The remote repositories are the resources that are located remotely and contain directory having jars,
    library files, and plugins, and other artifacts that might be useful and are accessed by using the protocols
    such as https:// of file:// protocol. These remote repositories are further segregated into the repositories
    that are kept at a remote place and shared between multiple individuals and developers for the private use of 
    a company or the third party to maintain and share artifacts. You can mention your remote repositories inside 
    the settings.xml file in the repositories tag and can add multiple repository tags for multiple remote repositories
    if you wish to configure them in the following way –
    
    3. Central Maven Repository
   The second remote repository in the maven is the central repository that is available for downloading the dependencies
   in your maven project and also to release the artifacts that you want to on the central repository. The link for the 
   central maven repository is https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/ while the site that is available for searching the
   maven dependencies available in the central repository of maven is – https://search.maven.org/. This type of remote
   repository is also called and referred to as the central repository and is available to all and is open source. This
   repository is provided by the maven community. There is no need for any configurations in settings.xml file for a 
   central repository.
     
     
     
     