
Q1/- Explain about the life-cycle of a Spring Bean.



Answer:

Bean life-cycle:
 For ordinary java class constructor and finalize() methods can be considered as life cycle methods. These
methods will be called automatically by the JVM,
Spring container will control the life-cycle of a spring bean, i.e. from instantiation to destruction.
Spring bean class is POJO class, it need not implements any spring f/w API specific interface or extend any
class to facilitate the spring container to control the life cycle of a spring bean. i.e. for spring beans, component
contract is not required.
Life-cycle of a spring bean has 5 stages:
1. Does not exist
2. Instantiated
3. Initialized
4. Service
5. Destroy
1. Does not exist phase:
Initially a spring bean object does not exist, if the bean object is in singleton scope then bean is instantiated by
container at the time of loading the xml file.
If the scope is prototype then it is instantiated at the time of pulling the object/utilizing that object. (i.e. at the
time of calling the getBean() method).
2. Instantiation phase:
Spring container loads the spring bean class into the memory and creates the bean class object.
after that then bean class object is created, spring container uses DI to populate the bean fields
(properties/variables)
All the dependencies will be resolved for a spring bean before its instantiation is finished.
3. Initialization phase:
Spring Day1 27
If inside the spring bean class any user-defined init-method is configured , spring container will call that
method.
Note:- unless initialization phase is over , spring container does not gives bean reference to the caller.
4. Service phase / Ready to use phase:
Here spring container provides the bean object reference to the caller, then caller can call its business method
on that bean object.
5. Destruction phase:
Upon the container shutdown (when we call close() method on the container class ) spring container will call
user-defined destroy() method if it is configured, just before bean instance is garbage collected.
Note:- when we shutdown the container, all the associated bean obj will be eligible for the garbage
collection.